#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Enforcing the Unity of Space and Time using Space-time Numbers 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
D.
 B.
 Sweetser
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
39 Drummer Rd., Acton, MA 01720
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Gentlemen! And women! The radical change where "space by itself and time
 by itself will receded completely to become mere shadows" has yet to occur.
 Well-respected physicist continue to debate the problem of the arrow of
 time, when after a simple boost, the discussion will shift to the arrow
 of space-time.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Why are we still waiting? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The tools of tensor calculus are flexible in regards to dimensions.
 The Universe is not.
 If I were so radical as to erase all the Greek subscripts and superscripts
 from technical books and papers on physics, then I might be able to replace
 them all with a kind of four dimensional number known as a quaternion.
 A quaternion forces one to write time or time-related terms in the scalar
 part, and space or space-related terms in the 3-vector part of a quaternion.
 There is never a choice to omit.
 There are a number of immediate benefits to this Minkowski-friendly change
 of accounting systems.
 When Newton's second law is written out, there are two time derivatives
 that have no corresponding spatial derivative.
 The appearance of zeros or constants where operators could go shows an
 expression is classical.
 To generate the second law requires three zeros, so the law is as classical
 as can be.
 A relativistic expression on the other hand will have no space-time terms
 that are zero or constant.
 Take for example the difference between two arbitrarily close events in
 space-time and square it: ( dt, dx/c, dy/c, dt/c) 2 = ( dt 2 − ( dx 2 +
 d y 2 + d z 2 )/c 2 , 2 dt dx/c, 2 dt dy/c, 2dt dz/c) Notice that the first
 term is identical to the Lorentz invariant interval for inertial observers,
 the symmetry at the heart of special relativity.
 There is now an opportunity for new physics by considering the a symmetry
 for the other three terms which I call space-times-time.
 The Schwarzschild solution of Einstein's general relativity theory for
 gravity almost leaves the space-times-time terms unchanged.
 I propose that the accidentally unchanged space-times-time is an an exact
 symmetry, the symmetry that gravity is about.
 Currently, gravity is the solution of ten nonlinear differential field
 equations.
 This proposal argues that gravity is a symmetry about all space-time algebra.
 In special relativity, one uses observers velocities to figure out how
 to conserve the interval.
 In this proposal, gravitational escape velocities do the same task to conserve
 space-times-time.
 Radical ideas require much work.
 Such is the case for quantum mechanics which is usually written using a
 Hilbert vector space over a complex number field.
 I have made technical progress on this subject using series of quaternions
 to define precisely the inner product of two states: < A |B > ≡ A * B =
 ∑ m b .
 I have n a * n n an iPython notebook which demonstrates different ways
 the quaternion representation is equivalent to the standard Hilbert space
 approach.
 Here again, when one writes out central equations in quantum mechanics
 such as the Schrödinger equation or the Klein-Gordon equation, one gets
 four equations instead of just one.
 We should expand Minkowski's vision of the profound union of time-like
 and space-like expressions into the quantum domain for fresh insights.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
